Add molecular alterations section of Zenodo upload README; restructure other sections (#1729)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis: tables/zenodo-upload/README.md

# Data underlying OpenPBTA Manuscript Figures and Molecular Alterations

> This directory contains CSV files that represent data inputted to plots shown in the OpenPBTA manuscript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This directory contains CSV files that represent data contained in plots shown in the OpenPBTA manuscript.
```

Author: I am tickled by the fact that I did not write that part!

> It is intended to facilitate inspection of the underlying data easier for readers and to explicitly capture the samples included in figures (where applicable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is intended to facilitate inspection of the underlying data shown in each figure and to explicitly capture which samples are included in figures (where applicable).
```

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**

- [Figure Data](#figure-data)
  - [Main Figure Data](#main-figure-data)
    - [Figure 1](#figure-1)
    - [Figure 2](#figure-2)
    - [Figure 3](#figure-3)
    - [Figure 4](#figure-4)
    - [Figure 5](#figure-5)
  - [Supplemental Figure Data](#supplemental-figure-data)
    - [Figure S2](#figure-s2)
    - [Figure S3](#figure-s3)
    - [Figure S4](#figure-s4)
    - [Figure S5](#figure-s5)
    - [Figure S6](#figure-s6)
    - [Figure S7](#figure-s7)
- [Molecular Alterations](#molecular-alterations)
  - [File Description](#file-description)
  - [Alteration Notation](#alteration-notation)
  - [Caveats](#caveats)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Figure Data

Data for the figures below are included as part of this download.
The table for each figure contains the following:

| Column | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| Figure Panel | Number and letter of the panel(s) |
| Filename | Name of the file that contains the relevant panel's data |

> | Brief Description | An overview of what the panel includes; please see the manuscript [figure legends](https://alexslemonade.github.io/OpenPBTA-manuscript/#figure-titles-and-legends) and [supplemental figures](https://alexslemonade.github.io/OpenPBTA-manuscript/#supplemental-information-titles-and-legends) for more information |

Reviewer: We're having all kinds of gh page failures over in `OpenPBTA-manuscript`, so we can't assume that the HTML manuscript is necessarily up to date. Fundamentally this is gh's problem, not ours, so I don't really know how we could change this... So, leave it!

Author: It's probably true enough to leave, yes.

| Notes on Tabular Data | Any notes to aid downloaders in interpreting the table; may be left blank |

> All tables are ordered by `sample_id`, where applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All tables are ordered by either `sample_id` or `Kids_First_Biospecimen_ID`, where applicable.
```

### Main Figure Data

#### Figure 1

| Figure Panel | Filename | Brief Description | Notes on Tabular Data | 
|--------|-------------|--------------------|-------------------------|
|   1B     |  | Barplot showing the number of biospecimens per phase of therapy | |

#### Figure 2

| Figure Panel | Filename | Brief Description | Notes on Tabular Data | 
|--------|-------------|--------------------|-------------------------|

> |   2A     |   | Oncoprint summarizing low-grade glioma alterations across samples for top 20 mutated genes          |

Reviewer: eh, this turned out not to be true but it's a lot to explain here! So, I'm just removing the 20.
```suggestion
|   2A     |   | Oncoprint summarizing low-grade glioma alterations across samples for top mutated genes           |
```

|   2B     |    | Oncoprint summarizing embryonal tumor alterations across samples for top 20 mutated genes         |

> |   2C     |    | Oncoprint summarizing high-grade glioma alterations across samples for top 20 mutated genes         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|   2C     |    | Oncoprint summarizing high-grade glioma alterations across samples for top mutated genes         |
```

> |   2D     |   |  Oncoprint summarizing other CNS tumor alterations across samples for top 20 mutated genes         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|   2D     |   |  Oncoprint summarizing other CNS tumor alterations across samples for top mutated genes         |
```

|--------|-------------|--------------------|-------------------------|
|   3A     |   | Barplot of occurrence and co-occurrence of nonsynonymous mutations for the 50 most commonly mutated genes across all tumor types         |
|   3B     |  | Heatmap of co-occurrence and mutual exclusivity of nonsynonymous mutations between genes           |
|   3C     |  | Scatterplot showing correlation of SV and CNV breaks            |
|   3D     |  | Barplot showing chromothripsis frequency for all cancer groups with N >= 3 tumors           |
|   3E     |  | Sina plots of RefSig signature weights across cancer groups         |
#### Figure 4

| Figure Panel | Filename | Brief Description | Notes on Tabular Data | 
|--------|-------------|--------------------|-------------------------|
|   4A     | | ROC curve for TP53 classifier         |
|   4B     | | Violin/strip plots of TP53 scores across TP53 alteration status           |
|   4C     | |  Violin/strip plots of TP53 expression [log(FPKM)] across TP53 alteration status            |
|   4D     | | Box/strip plots of TP53 scores and telomerase scores across cancer groups          |

> |   4E    |  |  Heatmap of RegSg signatures in patients with a hypermutator phenotype       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|   4E    |  |  Heatmap of RefSig signatures in patients with a hypermutator phenotype       |
```

#### Figure S6

| Figure Panel | Filename | Brief Description | Notes on Tabular Data | 
|--------|-------------|--------------------|-------------------------|
|   S6A     |             |             |
|   S6B     |             |             |
|   S6C     |             |             |
|   S6D     |             |             |
|   S6E     |             |             |
|   S6F     |             |             |

#### Figure S7

| Figure Panel | Filename | Brief Description | Notes on Tabular Data | 
|--------|-------------|--------------------|-------------------------|
|   S7A     |             |             |
|   S7B     |             |             |
|   S7C     |             |             |
|   S7D     |             |             |
|   S7E     |             |             |
|   S7F     |             |             |
|   S7G     |             |             |
|   S7H     |             |             |
|   S7I     |             |             |

## Molecular Alterations

Please see the `tables/tabulate-molecular-alterations.R` script in the `OpenPBTA-analysis` repository for more information about how this table was generated.

### File Description

> `openpbta-molecular-alterations.csv` contains information about the alterations (SNV, CNV, and fusions) a sample has in any gene included in the oncoprints in the manuscript (i.e., Figure 2). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`openpbta-molecular-alterations.csv` contains information about the alterations (SNV, CNV, and fusions) a sample has in any gene included in the oncoprints in the manuscript (i.e., Figure 2 and Figure S3B). 
```

* We report the `FusionName` field from `pbta-fusion-putative-oncogenic.tsv` for fusions. When reciprocal fusions are detected, we only report one – whichever comes first when partner genes are sorted alphabetically.

### Caveats

* Some `sample_id`-`composition` pairs map to multiple biospecimens of the same type (i.e., DNA and RNA).
When this occurs, the individual biospecimen identifiers are separated with semi-colons in the relevant column, and `multiple_assays_within_type` is marked as `TRUE`. 
The alterations for a gene are the union of alterations detected in biospecimens (i.e., they are detected in at least one biospecimen).
* If multiple `cancer_type` or `broad_histology` values are associated with the same `sample_id`-`composition` pair, these values are semi-colon separated.
* `germline_sex_estimate` is only available for `sample_id`-`composition` pairs that were assayed with WGS.
* We encountered an edge case when multiple RNA biospecimens map to the sample `sample_id`-`composition` pair where only one RNA biospecimen was assigned the `germline_sex_estimate` derived from the WGS data.

> We only included the non-missing value in these cases.

Reviewer: singular/plural break here.. how many edge case(s)? I would also explicit state which sample(s) those are, and then people can refer back to the histologies file if they want to see more.

Author: Edge case is not the right terminology to use, but it refers to a situation. One edge case can affect multiple samples.
